Carroll was convicted in 2004 for
the murders of 14 young women...
I have so many
surprises waiting for you.
- Tell me who Roderick is.
- A friend of Joe's.
- What's Joe doing? Why do you listen him?
- He's teaching me to feel my life.
Damn it!
Federal agents. Get down. now!
- Aah!
- I was supposed to bring your mom here.
- What happened?
I screwed up. What
happened to Paul and Jacob?
Why did you leave us? Emma!
The warden granted Carroll's
request for a transfer. He's leaving.
Joe's not in the vehicle.
His people got to the warden.
Where is he?
I'm David. It's a pleasure. sir.
So Joe's free.
Now I get locked up.
Protective custody.
Better if I don't know.
- Hey. Joey.
- I know you. You're my dad.
Don't worry.
Hey. good morning.
Did you sleep all right?
I know you're scared of me.
I sensed it last night
when I first arrived.
But I hope that will change and
you'll give me another chance.
Nothing? Don't
want to speak to me?
Well. that's okay.
Look. I'm sorry your mother
isn't here. She was meant to be.
That was the plan. But then
things went a little. pfft. awry.
I am doing everything
I can to rectify that.
But. uh. in the meantime.
I hope that you will. ah...
You'll give me a chance to prove
that I am not a horrible man...
and I have the
ability to be a rather...
cool and fun guy... Dad.
Dad.
Look. we'll. um. take
things slow. huh?
Well. that's all for now. uh...
How'd it go?
He's giving me
the silent treatment.
He needs to get to
know you. That's all.
- Come. everyone's waiting.
- What for?
For you.
Good morning. everybody.
A suspect instrumental in Carroll's
escape was wounded and taken into custody.
Several deaths have already
been attributed to the escaped killer.
One victim is
Carroll's attorney...
Carroll has escaped twice. This
time he flew away in a helicopter.
There's no way to spin that. This
is a Bureau nightmare. people.
From now on. we
have a new protocol.
All investigations will
need to be approved by me.
I apologize in advance
for being a control freak.
That's the way
we're doing things.
So I see Quantico
sent in a new guy.
Nick Donovan. top
of the food chain.
Director Franklin brought
him in to supervise us.
So it's official. The
Bureau's freaking out.
Everyone is freaking out.
Ryan. Carroll escaped twice.
Have you turned on the
TV? The news is insane.
What about Claire? Is she
safe? Has anyone spoken to her?
- Who's got her detail? Turner?
- I don't know.
She's in protective custody.
I don't have clearance.
The guy in custody. the
acolyte from Joe's escape.
- I need to question him. NICK:
You mean the one you tortured?
- I got information.
- He did.
We found the warden's daughter
and she is safe as a result.
Ryan. nice to meet you.
- Have we run prints on the guy?
- Yeah.
We got nothing. This cult is doing a
good job of wiping their identities clean.
We need to speak to him to find out
who and where this Roderick guy is.
Ryan. we appreciate your help.
But you were brought in as a
consultant. It's time you adopt...
- a consulting presence.
- Carroll is the one...
- who made Ryan more than a consultant.
- I'm aware.
But Ryan is no longer
an agent with the FBI.
- Oh. come on. you know as well as I...
- No. it's okay. He's right.
I'm here to consult.
This has become a Bureau
nightmare. right? I'm a liability.
I'll just. uh... I'll be
in the other room.
Consulting.
- Everything okay?
- Nobody likes me.
Well. you're
inconsistent and extreme.
People don't know
how to respond to you.
- I was joking.
- Sorry.
Bring our suspect for
questioning. I wanna talk to him.
Ahem. no can do. Donovan's
gonna do it. He insisted.
Great.
I didn't realize there
were so many people.
I've been cooped
up at the farmhouse.
I wanted Joey to be comfortable.
I know he trusts you. This
would have overwhelmed him.
Hmm.
- Any word from Jacob and Paul?
- No.
They haven't called and
there's been nothing on the news.
Well. we'll take that as a good
sign that they're somewhere safe.
You know. I will never forget
what you've done for me.
I have my son because of you.
What the...?
Joe Carroll.
How the hell are you?
- Roderick!
- Heh.
Ah. I got here as
soon as I could.
It is good to see you.
- I'm Roderick. You must be Emma.
- Nice to meet you in person. ha. ha.
- Darling.
- Easy on the charm. huh?
So far everything has
worked out as planned.
Sure. there's been a few
hiccups along the way.
Ryan Hardy has
kept us on our toes.
But you've
improvised quite nicely.
I'm in your debt. my
friend. Thank you.
I'm the one that owes you.
I killed two of those girls.
You took the blame.
There's no point in both
of us rotting away in here.
How can I ever repay you?
Oh. you will. My
friend. you will.
We're in this
together. you and me.
Everything I am
is because of you.
Come on. I'll show you around.
Is this place insane or what?
Interesting.
It's a work in progress.
We're slowly fixing it up.
- It takes a village. right?
- Huh? Heh.
WOMAN: Sheriff Nelson?
Yeah. Sheriff here.
Did you want potato salad or
coleslaw with your sandwich?
Let's go with potato
salad today. Sally honey.
- Roger that. sir.
- Thank you.
Sheriff's a very
important job around here.
It seems our man in
custody has shut down.
He won't talk to anyone but you.
Oh.
What would you
like me to do. sir?
I'd like you to sit in with me.
And you can call me Nick.
Sure thing. Nick.
Anything I can do to help.
I'm Nick Donovan. And you are?
Hello. Ryan.
Hello. How's the leg? I'm
sorry. I don't know your name.
You can call me David.
This guy is nuts.
Look at him.
Is this a staring contest?
Because you asked to see me.
Here I am.
How did you like the plot twist?
Joe Carroll escaping twice.
Bet you didn't see that coming.
Yeah. that was good.
Now you're boring me.
So if you've got
something to say. say it.
Or you can tell us
where we find Joe.
Oh. you're not gonna find Joe.
You don't find us. We find you.
And we're everywhere. We're
your sons. your daughters...
husbands. your
wives. neighbors...
fathers and mothers. And
soon. more will be dead tomorrow.
Now you're paraphrasing Ted
Bundy. He's paraphrasing Ted Bundy.
Poorly. I might add.
What is the point of this?
Hold close your fear.
It is all that you know when
you take your last breath.
Wow. that was creepy.
So how about you give
us something real. David?
- Hey.
Guards!
Guards! Guards!
He took something.
We have tech-town in here.
- Heh.
Everything is completely
secure. untraceable.
Charlie. you've been hiding
yourself away since I got here.
I'm sorry. sir.
About Claire. I failed you.
- I want you to know that...
- Not now. Charlie.
Don't be so hard
on yourself. Charlie.
Take what you've
learned and apply it.
- Hmm?
- Heh. Hmm.
All right. this way.
Hi. You remember Louise?
- But of course. She was my savior.
- The pleasure was mine.
We set this up for you.
It's meant to be your...
Your inspiration room.
Where you can write. hold
class. Poker on Mondays...
How many people live here?
- I see so many new faces.
- I've been recruiting.
There's the ones you know. about
a dozen more you have yet to meet.
We've. uh. built a life here.
In a small town that you're a
sheriff of. heh. That's genius.
Everybody's so excited
you're finally here. Joe.
Hmm.
- They're anxious to get started.
- As am I.
Claire first. Do we
know where she is?
She's in protective custody.
They. uh. got her out. clean.
My son needs his mother.
Losing Claire was a mistake.
I'm sorry about that. Joe.
But I have an idea
how we can find her.
Let the FBI tell us.
I've done all the research.
I got it all worked out.
Which one first? Hmm?
This one.
We're waiting on
the coroner's report.
But I think it's a suicide pill. a
basic cyanide or common PSP toxin.
- He had it in his hand?
- It was sewn into his skin.
Implanted in the fold between
his thumb and forefinger.
It's a CIA ploy from the '60s. Al
Qaeda has been known to use it as well.
I got some new intel
on the deceased.
Thanks. MITCHELL: Mm-hm.
I'll take that.
Seriously?
Based on his method of suicide. they
ran his prints through a military database.
- Came up with a match.
- Got a positive ID?
More than that. He was
named in an investigation.
There were soldiers conducting lethal
fights with Iraqi civilians for sport.
My email was hacked. Was it you?
Yeah. that was me. I did it.
Sorry. Ryan. you don't have
access to hack my email. Weston?
Uh. yes. sir. I
did. I apologize.
I need a word.
- What's going on?
- I think I got Weston in trouble.
- They hacked Donovan's email.
- You what? Damn it. Ryan.
- What happened?
- I'm being sent home.
Wait. wait.
This is my fault. I'll
go. I asked him to do it.
- He's going home.
- That's a bad call.
Excuse me?
We're spinning our wheels.
We need to keep things moving.
We can't if you're
sitting on information.
This investigation
starts at my desk now.
I understand your
relationship to this case...
and I'm trying hard to be polite.
but it's not something I excel at.
Just go back to the motel...
and we'll talk in the morning.
- Are you getting in?
- No. thanks. I'll wait for the next one.
- You okay?
- Yeah.
You need some help with that?
No. I'm fine. Thanks.
Your call has been forwarded...
to an automatic voice...
Mitchell. Weston's
not picking up.
- I tried three times.
- Not like him. He always picks up.
- Can you ping his phone?
- Already on it.
Says he's at the motel.
Something's not right. I'm gonna
check it out. Let Parker know.
You need to pace yourself.
- Heh.
When was the last
time you were drunk?
Oh. years.
Oh. is that Scotch I see?
- Oh. it's really bad Scotch.
- Heh.
To hell with it.
I don't think I'd know
good Scotch anymore.
Oh. damn it.
What I really need is this
damn thing off. Please.
Of course. Heh. you're sloshed.
Oh. yes. Yes. I am sloshed.
You deserve it.
I'm sure there are a lot of things
that you need to catch up on.
Yes. yes. that's...
That is true.
It has been depressingly
quiet on that front.
Well. you need to fix that then.
Here you go.
All better?
Yes. all better.
Roderick called.
All is going to plan.
- They should be back by dawn.
- Splendid. Aaron. Thank you.
So how long have you and
Roderick known each other?
Oh. uh. just a little bit
longer than I've known you.
Was he a student of yours?
Yes. in some ways he
was. um. my first student.
Why are we here?
- Why. are you scared?
- No.
Should I be. Professor Carroll?
So now what?
What am I doing here?
I'd like to teach you.
Now. first. I like
to gauge their fear.
Listen to their breathing.
You want to get in sync with it.
Make their breathing
become yours.
It's a way to connect
to their heartbeat.
First. take the very
tip of the blade.
And you place it
softly on their skin...
and push...
ever so gently.
until you feel...
the moment of...
give.
Your Scotch. heh.
- Oh.
- Your Scotch is all. heh...
Joe.
I love...
I love my wife. Emma.
You understand that?
Now. let's go and
find the others. um...
Hey. Did Mitchell send the
motel surveillance footage?
Yeah. got it right here.
They could have killed him. but
they didn't. They want something.
Confirmed identities of
who we're dealing with.
Charles Mead. man who
abducted Claire Matthews. is one.
The other is Louise
Sinclair. out of New Orleans.
- Former Black water operative.
- Another overachiever.
Find out if she
ran the plates yet.
We put out an APB in the
300-mile radius of Richmond.
- If it's out there. we'll find it.
- Put the call on speaker.
Debra? It's Nick. The image
of the license plate isn't perfect.
We can make out three.
maybe four numbers. clearly.
But local police found nine potential
matches of the color. make. and model.
They got nine
matches on the plates.
Uh. where are the cars?
A couple are registered
to upstate New York.
- Two registered in upstate New York...
- Two are out of service.
Police spotted one outside an
abandoned shipyard in Newport Harbor.
- That's the one.
- How do you know?
Time on the video is half an hour ago.
how long it takes to get to Newport Harbor.
Plus. they need someplace
quiet to do what they're gonna do.
Abandoned
shipyard fits the bill.
Sounds like a hunch.
- A good one. We're heading over.
- That's my call.
So make it.
Fine. Go.
Let's go.
Agent Weston.
Welcome to our
little slice of paradise.
Thanks. And you are?
I'm your host for
tonight's main event.
Here's how it works.
I'm going to ask
you a few questions...
and you're going to
answer them truthfully.
And if I don't?
That's where it gets fun. - Heh.
You see. we have a little game
we like to play. a fight sport.
You lie. we begin a round.
You lie some more...
it gets worse. heh.
So.
Tell me.
Where is Claire Matthews?
Is that what this is about?
Sorry. man. She's in protective
custody. No one knows where she is.
That's a lie.
Round one.
Ding. ding.
Come on. now. you need to get up.
- Ugh.
Big boy. we're
gonna have some fun.
Nice!
Match on our hands here.
Rah-rah. Pick it up. boys.
Let's see some real blood.
Okay. All right. all right.
Wanna end this?
Tell us where Claire is.
I don't know anything.
You think we don't
know about you.
Agent Michael Emerson Weston.
Born in San Diego. California.
Political Science major at Wesleyan.
Then three years at Quantico.
Studying high profile
personal security.
You know everyone. you know
everything about FBI protective custody.
You know where they hid Claire.
You know everything about me.
And I don't know anything about you.
Roderick?
Isn't that what they call you?
Yeah.
Same question. second
round. Where's Claire?
I don't know. They didn't
tell me that. Why would they?
Round two is gonna hurt.
Ding. ding.
That's definitely the car.
They gotta be inside.
I'll check the perimeter.
Come on. Come
on. ring-a-ding-ding.
It's not over until
you stop breathing.
You're still breathing.
You got one last chance here.
Where's Claire?
I don't know.
I don't... I don't know.
- I don't know.
- I believe you.
I believe you.
Final round.
Help him up.
Get off!
I'm going to find Claire.
whether you'll help me or not.
I got this.
Help me hold his head.
Let's get out of here.
Stop!
FBI!
Don't move. don't move.
Ambulance is
coming. Take it easy.
I didn't tell them. Ryan.
I didn't tell them anything.
Okay.
Hey. hey. hey.
Come on. come on.
Stay with me. buddy.
Severe concussion. blood loss.
He'll need surgery. but the
paramedics believe he'll pull through.
You okay?
No.
I'm gonna. uh. head
over to the hospital.
He'll be in surgery for hours.
Still.
You know this wasn't
your fault. Ryan?
You can't own everything
that goes wrong.
No. that's not it.
It's just I know
hospitals. They're no fun.
I just think somebody should be
there when he wakes up. that's all.
We got nothing.
We lost five men.
I'm sorry. Joe.
You'll find Claire.
And bring her home.
Of that. I'm certain.
I will find her.
I owe you. man.
One more thing.
I've let you down again. sir.
I won't lie. Charlie.
I'm disappointed.
I want to make it right.
The reason I wanted to
know you. to be a part of this...
is I wanted my life
to mean something.
Hmm.
You want to do this for me?
I want to be important. sir.
I want my life to matter.
This is my gift...
and my apology.
You will always matter.
- How long has he been out?
- About an hour.
His surgery went well.
He kept saying. "I
didn't tell them anything."
What was he talking about?
Claire's location.
- He knew the whole time?
- Yeah.
He spent two years with the
protective custody division in Quantico.
He has clearance.
He's the only one who
does know where Claire is.
We'll bury him in the morning.
Oh. no. I've seen this
look. What's wrong?
You want a drink?
You wanna go upstairs...
- and break a headboard again?
- Not tonight.
- You're in a mood.
- Things are different.
- That's all. With Joe here.
- They're supposed to be.
This is what we've
been working towards.
I'm sorry about Charlie too.
I mean. well. not really. heh.
Clean towels. Clothes.
If these don't
fit. there's more.
Did it help?
I don't know if it helped
but it was certainly a rush.
- I love my wife.
- She's not here.
What can I do...
to make you feel better?
- Dick!
- Don't be like that. huh?